Editorial review: Document CSS carousel functionality (#38752)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/_doublecolon_column/index.md

---
title: ::column
slug: Web/CSS/::column
page-type: css-pseudo-element
browser-compat: css.selectors.column
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`::column`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements) represents the individual columns generated when a container is set to display its content in multiple columns via [CSS multi-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_multicol_layout).

## Syntax

```css-nolint
::column {
  /* ... */
}
```

## Description

> When CSS multi-column layout is used to lay out a container's content in multiple columns (for example, using the {{cssxref("column-count")}} property), a `::column` pseudo-element is generated to contain each individual column.

Author: Good call; updated.

    <h2>Item 9</h2>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h2>Item 10</h2>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h2>Item 11</h2>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h2>Item 12</h2>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h2>Item 13</h2>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h2>Item 14</h2>
  </li>
  <li>
    <h2>Item 15</h2>
  </li>
</ul>
```

#### CSS

The list is given a fixed {{cssxref("height")}} and a {{cssxref("width")}} of `100vw` to make it span the full width of the viewport. An {{cssxref("overflow-x")}} value of `scroll` is then set so that the content will scroll horizontally, and [CSS scroll snap](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_scroll_snap) is used to snap to each item or "page" — a {{cssxref("scroll-snap-type")}} value of `x mandatory` is used to make the list into a [scroll snap container](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Scroll_snap#scroll_snap_container). Finally, a {{cssxref("columns")}} value of `1` is set to force the list contents to display as a single column. A {{cssxref("text-align")}} value of `center` is also applied, to align the content with the center of the list.

```css hidden live-sample___carousel-example
* {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

body {
  margin: 0;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
}

h1 {
  text-align: center;
  font-size: 1.7rem;

> }

Author: done

```

```css live-sample___carousel-example
ul {
  width: 100vw;
  height: 300px;
  padding: 10px;

  overflow-x: scroll;
  scroll-snap-type: x mandatory;

  columns: 1;
  text-align: center;
}
```

The list items are then styled:

- A {{cssxref("display")}} value of `inline-block` is set to force the list items to sit alongside one another and make the list scroll horizontally.
- A fixed {{cssxref("aspect-ratio")}} of `3/4` has been set on them, to control their sizing as the list size changes, keeping their width constant as the height of the list stays constant.
- A `text-align` value of `left` is set on them to override the `text-align: center` set on the parent container, so the item content will be left-aligned.
- Every even-numbered list item is given a different background-color via {{cssxref(":nth-child()")}}, so that it is easier to see the scrolling effect.

```css live-sample___carousel-example
li {
  list-style-type: none;

  display: inline-block;
  height: 100%;

>   aspect-ratio: 3/4;

Author: see above

  background-color: #eee;

>   border: 1px solid #ddd;

Author: ok, updated

  padding: 20px;
  margin: 0 10px;

  text-align: left;
}

li:nth-child(even) {
  background-color: cyan;
}
```

The {{cssxref("scroll-snap-align")}} property is set on the {{cssxref("::column")}} pseudo-elements — which represent the content columns generated by the `columns` property — so that when scrolled, the list snaps to each complete column.

```css live-sample___carousel-example
ul::column {
  scroll-snap-align: center;
}
```

#### Result

> {{EmbedLiveSample("carousel-example", "100%", "400px")}}

Author: done

> 

Author: OK then, I'll add it. I guess it isn't actually very much work.

> See [Creating CSS carousels](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_overflow/CSS_carousels) for a full carousel example featuring the technique outlined above.

Author: I didn't end up doing this — I don't think it's that important now that we have a column carousel example on the page. I've described the link as "more carousel examples", rather than a full example of this specific type.

## Specifications

> {{Specifications}}

Reviewer: where is this defined? I haven't reviewed this page yet b/c i can't find the spec.

Author: I'm pretty sure it is non-standard at the moment. I've updated this section to say as such, for now.

---
title: ::column
slug: Web/CSS/::column
page-type: css-pseudo-element

> browser-compat: css.selectors.column

Reviewer: I found the spec. It's defined in CSS multicol level 2.

---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`::column`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements) represents the individual columns generated when a container is set to display its content in multiple columns via [CSS multi-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_multicol_layout). The `::column` pseudo-element enables applying styles that do not affect the layout to these generated fragments.

## Syntax

```css-nolint
::column {
  /* ... */
}
```

## Description

When CSS multi-column layout is used to lay out a container's content in multiple columns (for example, using the {{cssxref("column-count")}} property), `::column` pseudo-elements are generated to contain each individual column.

> This is useful for [CSS carousels](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_overflow/CSS_carousels) — `::column` can be used to generate {{cssxref("::scroll-marker")}} pseudo-elements for each column, and set them as [snap targets](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Scroll_snap#snap_target) using [CSS scroll snap](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_scroll_snap).
> 
> Beyond that, the styling that can be applied to `::column` is very limited, but may be expanded in the future. Any properties and values supported in the future will be limited to ones that do not affect layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `::column` pseudo-element only accepts scroll snap properties that apply to elements inside a scroll container, including {{cssxref("scroll-margin")}}, {{cssxref("scroll-snap-align")}}, and {{cssxref("scroll-snap-stop")}}.

The `::column` pseudo-element can have a {{cssxref("::scroll-marker")}}  pseudo-element. Other pseudo-elements, like  {{cssxref("::before")}}  and  {{cssxref("::after")}} are not support on ::column.

Applying `::column::scroll-marker` creates a marker for every column of the scroll container originating element, with the `::scroll-marker` pseudo-elements inheriting from the `::column` pseudo-element’s originating element rather than the ::column itself. 

This is useful for [CSS carousels](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_overflow/CSS_carousels) — `::column` can be used to generate `::scroll-marker` pseudo-elements for each column, and set them as [snap targets](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Scroll_snap#snap_target) using [CSS scroll snap](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_scroll_snap).

While the styling that can be applied to `::column` is very limited, it may be expanded in the future. Any properties and values supported in the future will be limited to ones that do not affect layout.
```

Author: Nice, thanks! I've used it, but edited it/cleaned it up a bit

* {
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

body {
  margin: 0;
  font-family: Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
}
```

```css live-sample___column-layout-example live-sample___carousel-example
ul {
  width: 100vw;
  height: 300px;
  padding: 10px;

  overflow-x: scroll;
  scroll-snap-type: x mandatory;

  columns: 1;
  text-align: center;
}
```

The list items are then styled:

- A {{cssxref("display")}} value of `inline-block` is set to force the list items to sit alongside one another and make the list scroll horizontally.
- A fixed {{cssxref("width")}} and {{cssxref("height")}} has been set on them.
- A `text-align` value of `left` is set on them to override the `text-align: center` set on the parent container, so the item content will be left-aligned.
- Every even-numbered list item is given a different background-color via {{cssxref(":nth-child()")}}, so that it is easier to see the scrolling effect.

```css live-sample___column-layout-example live-sample___carousel-example
li {
  list-style-type: none;

  display: inline-block;
  height: 100%;
  width: 200px;

  background-color: #eee;
  outline: 1px solid #ddd;

>   padding: 20px;

Author: I've tried that, and it doesn't give me the effect I wanted. I think this is OK as is.

  margin: 0 10px;

>   text-align: left;

Author: Sure, done.

}

li:nth-child(even) {
  background-color: cyan;
}
```

The {{cssxref("scroll-snap-align")}} property is set on the {{cssxref("::column")}} pseudo-elements — which represent the content columns generated by the `columns` property — so that when scrolled, the list snaps to each complete column.

```css live-sample___column-layout-example live-sample___carousel-example
ul::column {
  scroll-snap-align: center;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("column-layout-example", "100%", "400px")}}

### Column-based carousel with scroll markers

> Expanding on the previous example, we can use apply a {{cssxref("scroll-marker-group")}} to the container and a {{cssxref("::scroll-marker")}} to every column fragment with `::column`. The HTML remains unchanged, and we can achieve the above with just a few lines of CSS.

Author: I didn't like "columnar navigation"; not a very common phrase, therefore it might confuse people.

I have fixed it in a different way, by providing a more direct description on scroll markers:

> Expanding on the previous example, we will create scroll markers to enable direct navigation to different columns by applying a {{cssxref("scroll-marker-group")}} to the container and a {{cssxref("::scroll-marker")}} to each `::column` pseudo-element. The HTML remains unchanged.

  display: flex;
  gap: 0.4em;
  place-content: center;
}
```

Finally, we use the {{cssxref("::scroll-marker")}} pseudo-element to create a round, transparent marker for each list item with a black border, then style the marker of the currently-scrolled element differently from the others, targeting the marker with the {{cssxref(":target-current")}} pseudo-class:

```css live-sample___carousel-example
ul::column::scroll-marker {
  content: "";
  width: 16px;
  height: 16px;
  background-color: transparent;
  border: 2px solid black;
  border-radius: 10px;
}

ul::column::scroll-marker:target-current {
  background-color: black;
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("carousel-example", "100%", "400px")}}

Try pressing the scroll markers to jump straight to each page. Note how the current marker is highlighted so you can see where you are in the pagination. Also try tabbing to the scroll marker group, then use the cursor keys to cycle through each page.

See [Creating CSS carousels](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_overflow/CSS_carousels) for more carousel examples.

## Specifications

This pseudo-element is not currently defined in a specification.

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

> ## See also

Reviewer: This page is more about the multicol spec than the overflow. Let's update this section to reflect that.

Author: Sure thing; done

---
title: ::column
slug: Web/CSS/::column
page-type: css-pseudo-element
browser-compat: css.selectors.column
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`::column`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements) represents the different column fragments of a container set to display in multiple columns via [CSS multi-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_multicol_layout).

Author: OK, I've thought about it a bit and reworded it to

> ...represents the different columns generated when a container is set to display its content in multiple columns via [CSS multi-column layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_multicol_layout).

Any better?

## Syntax

```css-nolint
::column {
  /* ... */
}
```

## Description

> When CSS multi-column layout is used to lay out a container's content in multiple columns (for example, using the {{cssxref("column-count")}} property), a box is generated to contain each generated column's content. The `::column` pseudo-element represents those generated boxes.

Author: That was a bit of a word salad. I have rewritten it to

> When CSS multi-column layout is used to lay out a container's content in multiple columns (for example, using the {{cssxref("column-count")}} property), a `::column` pseudo-element is generated to contain each individual column.

This is useful for [CSS carousels](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_overflow/CSS_carousels) — `::column` can be used to generate {{cssxref("::scroll-marker")}} pseudo-elements for each column, and set them as [snap targets](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Scroll_snap#snap_target) using [CSS scroll snap](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_scroll_snap).

Beyond that, the styling that can be applied to `::column` is very limited, but may be expanded in the future.

## Examples

> 

Author: I've had a go at putting a full example that only includes the descriptions appropriate to that page on the pages for `::scroll-marker`, `::scroll-marker-group`, `::scroll-button()`, and `::column`. I'm not 100% sure about these, so let me know what you think.

I didn't think it was worth include the whole thing on the `:target-current` and `scroll-marker-group` pages.
